GitHub.md, before:

# Using GitHub

## Submitting changes

We follow the "typical" GitHub workflow when contributing changes:

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) a repository into your account.
2. Create a new branch and give it a meaningful name. For example, if you are going to fix issue MBS-4635, branch can be
   called `mbs-4635` or `replace-image`.
3. Make your changes and commit them with a [good description](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html)
   ([more details](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)). *You don't need to provide a lot
   of details, but make sure that people who look at the commit history afterwards can understand what you were changing
   and why.*
4. [Create](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/) a new pull request on GitHub. Make sure that
   title of your pull request is descriptive. If you are fixing an issue that exists in our bug tracker reference it
   like this: `MBS-4635: Allow replacing images`. **Not** `[MBS-4635] - Allow replacing images` or `Allow replacing images
   (MBS-4635)` or `MBS-4635`.
   If you are fixing several issues at once, reference it like this: `MBS-9477, MBS-10568, MBS-10569: DiscID tab improvements`.
   In the rare case you are partially fixing an issue, reference it like this: `MBS-10365 (III): Convert EventList to react-table`.
5. :shipit:

## Status checks and testing

Most of the projects have a set of tests that are run on each pull request to make sure that changes don't break the
*master* branch. These checks are mandatory in most cases.

Apart from MusicBrainz, our projects don't have a release schedule. This means that changes are released as soon as they
are ready. Keeping the *master* branch functional in this case is essential. If a change that breaks tests is merged, it
will cause issues for all the developers working on a project. It should be very easy to undo something that has been done
and rollback deployed version of a service.

Checks are run automatically by Jenkins or other services depending on what projects decide to go with.

Commit message:

Make pull request title formats more readable (#23)
- Split the different cases off from paragraph,  as list items;
- Format the examples as code blocks to highlight these;
- Collapse the resulting list to avoid lengthening the overview.

Co-authored-by: Nicolás Tamargo <reosarevok@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Monkey Do <MonkeyDo@users.noreply.github.com>

GitHub.md, after:

# Using GitHub

## Submitting changes

We follow the "typical" GitHub workflow when contributing changes:

1. [Fork](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/) a repository into your account.
2. Create a new branch and give it a meaningful name. For example, if you are going to fix issue MBS-4635, branch can be
   called `mbs-4635` or `replace-image`.
3. Make your changes and commit them with a [good description](http://tbaggery.com/2008/04/19/a-note-about-git-commit-messages.html)
   ([more details](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/)). *You don't need to provide a lot
   of details, but make sure that people who look at the commit history afterwards can understand what you were changing
   and why.*
4. [Create](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request/) a new pull request on GitHub.
   Make sure that the title of your pull request is descriptive.
   <details>
   <summary><i>Click to toggle formats for referencing ticket(s) in pull request’s title</i></summary>

     * If you are fixing an issue that exists in our bug tracker, reference it like this:
       ```
       MBS-4635: Allow replacing images
       ```
       (Not `[MBS-4635] - Allow replacing images` or `Allow replacing images (MBS-4635)` or `MBS-4635`.)
     * If you are fixing several issues at once, reference them like this:
       ```
       MBS-9477, MBS-10568, MBS-10569: DiscID tab improvements
       ```
     * In the rare case you are partially fixing an issue, reference it like this:
       ```
       MBS-10365 (III): Convert EventList to react-table
       ```
     Properly referenced tickets will be automatically linked and updated in our bug tracker.
   </details>
5. :shipit:

## Status checks and testing

Most of the projects have a set of tests that are run on each pull request to make sure that changes don't break the
*master* branch. These checks are mandatory in most cases.

Apart from MusicBrainz, our projects don't have a release schedule. This means that changes are released as soon as they
are ready. Keeping the *master* branch functional in this case is essential. If a change that breaks tests is merged, it
will cause issues for all the developers working on a project. It should be very easy to undo something that has been done
and rollback deployed version of a service.

Checks are run automatically by Jenkins or other services depending on what projects decide to go with.
